---
layout: post
title: "Take your concentration seriously!"
description: "daily notes"
category: Daily Logs
tags: [Daily Logs]
comments: false
---

May 09, 2021

A few months back, ***[Jason Braganza](https://www.buzzsprout.com/1121972/5519902)*** pointed me to [this podcast episode](https://www.buzzsprout.com/1121972/5519902) from **Cal Newport**. 

Each question asked during this particular podcast was very helpful to me. I literally got answers, solutions, work-arounds, frameworks (or whatever you wanna call them) to solve my own set of problems at the time.

Today, I want to put here, (kind of) a gist of an answer to one of the questions asked during the podcast.<!-- break -->

---

***Someone asked Cal:***

> Can you be hyper-distracted on social media for some days, & then deeply focus on the other ones?
> 
> OR...
> 
> You need to be consistent to build up *Decent Cognitive Fitness*?

For answering the question, Cal starts by talking about **Physical Fitness**. He gives this example ~ 

- you exercise for one day during a week,
- then you go & binge eat twice during the same week,
- & then you come back to diet & exercise again.

Well, it doesn't work like this way!

And similar thing goes for **Social Media**.

If you are doing the same thing (i.e. you're hyper-distracted on social media for some days, & then you come back and tries to focus deeply during the other ones), you're not taking your ***congnitive fitness*** seriously. You need to be serious about your **brain**.

You need to follow, what is known as **Digital Minimalism**.

Which means, be intentional about what & why you are using your social medias for? It should be minimised to a level & utilizied in such a manner, where it gives you real value without getting distracted. (of course, this isn't to be done at one moment itself, but slowly & by taking one step at a time)

If you give yourself distractive days very frequently, it will make it harder & harder to go back to concentration on the other days.

You need to ***take your concentration very seriousely***!

---

I followed this advice myself (with minimising the usage of multiple social media platforms). And I can very confidently say, I absolutely don't regret not scrolling through the timelines & feeds every single day. It's just not required & useful to me in any way.

It works. The process of **digital minimalism** works. 🙂

