---
layout: post
title: "Notes: Kubernetes upstream contribution #3"
description: "rough notes of what things I did today"
category: upstream-contribution
tags: [kubernetes]
comments: false
---

May 2, 2021

Notes from today:

- Worked on the following two issues:
    - [how to get namespaces ingressroutes through #1388](https://github.com/kubernetes-client/python/issues/1388)
        - PR ready, I'm just waiting for one of my yesterday's PR to get merged first, so, I could add solution to this as well, on top of that.
    - [How do we do rolling restart? #1378](https://github.com/kubernetes-client/python/issues/1378)
        - PR here ~ https://github.com/kubernetes-client/python/pull/1450

- Had a brainstorming session with a friend. For me, it was trying to understand & discuss, what parts (sub-projects) of `sig-api-machinary` to dive-in next? What would be the nodes upwards to python-client? My takeaways, I'm gonna spend time on understanding the [kubernetes/code-generator](https://github.com/kubernetes/code-generator/blob/master/OWNERS) & [kubernetes-client/gen](https://github.com/kubernetes-client/gen) sub-projects, as my next steps now. And lastly, got a brief walkthrough on the kube-builder boilerplate framework (for writing CRD based controller & operator logic). This is also something that I need to understand.

(no hurries, I will do it slowly with time. I am already working on operators, so, having that much information is far more than enough for now. I need to focus on other significant stuff first)

- Learnt how to read the [kubernetes/api](https://github.com/kubernetes/api) file (precisely, each k8s internally supported api version's `types.go` file, which is what exactly contain the schema of all resources defined under a specific api version). Really useful finding this is.  

- Spent some time going through open issues (& lots of closed, and stale issues & old PRs) on the k8s python client repo. And I would say, I can read them (in terms of what they're asking for), I have my set of basic terminologies in place now. But not to deny, there is no difference in my getting extremely overwhelmed by the stuff all around there. 

But then I ask myself
- how much time & effort, I have spent so far? 
- And was I able to pick up even this much stuff before? 
- Was I able to understand the context of the problems/issues/PRs before? 
- Was I aware of the project structure (the little I know even now) before?
- Was I even here & doing this before? 

And answers to all these questions, give me hope to keep going. Because I'm learning & I'm learning a lot. And, this is not a competition for me with others but definitely my own obligation with myself, to everyday show up & try. And so, I must do it.

That's it. 

(And a note to myself, next time weekend should be mostly weekends. You really need them.)
