---
layout: post
title: "Notes: customizing starship! #27"
description: "rough notes of what things I did today"
category: upstream-contribution
tags: [kubernetes]
comments: false
---

July 25, 2021

On my local machine, I use a [starship](https://starship.rs/) cross-shell prompt setup on top of bash (which I truly find as a very handy tool!)

So, as part of my day to day work, I require to spin up or connect to multiple kubernetes & OpenShift clusters at a time. Although `starship` has an inbuilt kubernetes module, to dynamically configure the shell prompt based on the currently active kubernetes cluster, but for some reason, it never reflected on my kubernetes/OpenShift cluster logins (so far). 

And I also didn't realise that until now, because most of the times, I used a python-based tooling to login into multiple clusters in a containerized manner (in simple words, each cluster login happened in a separate docker container (& not on my host machine)).

And, so the few times, I spinned up local clusters, well, I didn't notice much. And at other times, on the docker container shell (created for cluster logins), it had custom bash prompts, (& ofcourse, no `starship`), so, again, it never stuck me.

But today, I was trying to add `starship` to the above python tooling contianer image & then I realised for the first time, that it didn't pick up any of the cluster configs or the active namespace value (basically all stuff that the starship's [kubernetes module](https://github.com/starship/starship/blob/master/src/modules/kubernetes.rs) look for, to configure the prompt accordingly).

So, then I was looking for ways to set up a custom config for `starship`, to help with this scenario.

Well, it was easy (after a little while of wasted time, in random blind internet search). The [official documentation for `starship` talks about the steps required to add custom configurations.](https://starship.rs/config/).

The default configuration path for the `starship` is set to `~/.config/starship.toml` (which is something that's not created at the time of fresh install. FYI, `starship config` command gives you the path.)

So, below are the (very quick) steps that I followed to configure `starship` to work my with requirements for the kubernetes/OpenShift clusters.

- create the config file

  `mkdir -p ~/.config && touch ~/.config/starship.toml`
  
- edit the `~/.config/starship.toml` file & add the following (⬇️) & save the changes.

  ```
  [kubernetes]
  symbol = "☸️  "
  style = "green"
  disabled = false
  
  [username]
  style_user = "bold blue"
  show_always = true
  ```
  
  
Yea, that's all what was required. The prompt right away, started picking up the changes & showing the required stuff.

```
psaggu on ☸️  test-openshift-cluster/psaggu-cssre (test-namespace) took 42s
❯ 
```
  
