---
layout: post
title: "Gender is a spectrum, not binary!"
description: "self enlightenment"
category: Gratitude 
tags: [Gratitude]
comments: false
---

May 22, 2021


I think this is really important for me to write here, just for myself. I don’t care for, what thoughts and opinions others would have on it.

I’m 23 years old currently & for almost 20 years of my life, I had known Gender to be binary, as two things, either male or female.

And not to mention, I was wrong. And, I am really happy that I was wrong.

And although, for these last 3 years of my life, I got this education and I became aware about the LGBTQ+ community, the cis and trans genders, the practice of using gender neutral pronouns, I still struggled. And before I write anything more, just wanna clarify that I totally belive in it, and I totally respect it, infact I consider it to be one of the most right, one of the most wonderful and beautiful things which, finally, people are openly talking about, sharing about.

It simply feels like one notion of freedom to me.

But, I struggled, even after all this.

Why?

Because it was still so hard for me, to give myself another definition for what is Gender. Provided now that I knew its not binary for sure, its definitely more than that, much more than that.

I think today, I finally got a fair enough definition, the right words to resolve that silent struggle.

For me,

***Gender is a spectrum.***

***Where people sit on this spectrum has a fluidity on it. We all are at somewhere on this spectrum.***

***And because gender is a spectrum, we should not be defined by any specific terms. We should not be judged by where we are on this spectrum.***

---

This is a really huge and important realisation for me. I am grateful!
