---
layout: post
title: "Notes: Kubernetes upstream contribution #2"
description: "rough notes of what things I did today"
category: upstream-contribution
tags: [kubernetes]
comments: false
---

May 1, 2021

Did the following today:

- In the morning, I rebased this [PR (Add custom alertmanager go template to enhance email config)](https://github.com/integr8ly/integreatly-operator/pull/1721) with [integreatly-operator](https://github.com/integr8ly/integreatly-operator) master branch. And it created a terrible mess (some really serious mess, with changes in 551 files), took me an hour to clean it & finally make it even with the master branch. Hoping it'll be merged next week, so we get it atleast in the RHOAM 1.7 release.
- And rest of the day was entirely playing around k8s python [dynamic clinet](https://github.com/kubernetes-client/python-base/tree/master/dynamic). I learnt a lot of stuff around how to create, list, patch (update) & delete k8s resources (`CustomResourceDefinition (CRD)`s, `Custom Resources (CR)`, `Services`, `Configmaps`, `Replication-Controller`, & `nodes`).  And as a result of all the learning, I raised [quite a long PR](https://github.com/kubernetes-client/python/pull/1448) today (the bot marked it `Size/XL`& that means the review will take time). Anyways, the fun part was something that happened when I was done with all my changes & I raised the PR. The kubernetes upstream project accepts changes from folks who sign the [Contributor License Agreement (CLA)](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/CLA.md#the-contributor-license-agreement). And well, it is sure that I've signed it because that is why I got 3 of my PRs merged last week itself. But as I raised the PR today, the bot labelled it `cncf-cla: no` which means even if everything gets approved, the PR won't be merged. I cross-checked once again if I needed to sign it again or something, but no, everything was fine with the CLA. Then I was digging within my previous commit information & after a roughly 30/45 min brainstorming, I realised the `Author (email)` in the last commit was something arbitrary value (something like this ~ `psaggu.localhost@private-domain`). The bot use the `Author (email)` value to verify if there is a GitHub username in their record, who have signed the CNCF CLA using this email address. And if there is, then the bot label the PRs from this user as `cncf-cla:yes`, otherwise `cncf-cla:no`, with one of the required PR workflow test failing. Now, I knew the problem but I still wasn't sure how to fix it. So, with some more tinkering on internet, [this article](https://thoughtbot.com/blog/git-interactive-rebase-squash-amend-rewriting-history) came to my rescue. And more precisely this command:
  `git commit --amend --author="John Doe <john-doe@example.com>"`

- That's it, ammending the previous commit with the `--author` flag worked for me & the bot (fortunately) changed the label to `cncf-cla:yes`. Also to note, I spent some time with the Linux Foundation Jira board as well, checking if I could create a case there, but that was extremly slow & I literally closed the tab only after trying for 4/5 times (good for me).

So, on and all, today was more of a git learning with all other stuff I did.

More tomorrow, bye!
