---
layout: post
title: "Quality of Service for Pods #29"
description: "rough notes of what things I did today"
category: upstream-contribution
tags: [kubernetes]
comments: false
---

August 03, 2021

While working on a side project yesterday, I was reading through the Pod manifests for some services. And one of the fields, I read there was `qosClass: BestEffort`.

I might be very ignorant before (as I never paid attention to this), but I wanted to understand what this QoS class (or Quality of Service class) meant.

So, yea below is what I understood & it is a very easy concept. 🙂

---

So, when we create pods in a kubernetes cluster, kubernetes assigns one of following QoS classes to (every) Pod:
- Guaranteed
- Burstable
- BestEffort

Each of these QoS class listed above have something to do with whether the Pod objects have properly defined resources (CPU, memory) or not.

### Guaranteed

A Pod (including all the init containers and app containers) will get a QoS class of `Guaranteed`, if:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: test-pod
  namespace: default
spec:
  containers:
  - name: test-container
    image: nginx
    resources:
      limits:
        memory: "50Mi"
        cpu: "200m"
      requests:
        memory: "50Mi"
        cpu: "200m"
```

- Every Container in the Pod must have a `memory limit` and a `memory request` set.
- For every Container in the Pod, the `memory limit` must be equal to the `memory request`.
  
  For example ~ 
  - limits(memory) = requests(memory) = 50 Mi   
  
- Every Container in the Pod must have a `CPU limit` and a `CPU request`.
- For every Container in the Pod, the CPU limit must equal the CPU request.

  For example ~
  - limits(cpu) = requests(cpu) = 200m


### Burstable

A Pod will get a QoS class of `Burstable`, if:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: test-pod
  namespace: default
spec:
  containers:
  - name: test-container
    image: nginx
    resources:
      limits:
        memory: "50Mi"
      requests:
        memory: "100Mi"
```

- The Pod does not meet the criteria for QoS class Guaranteed.
- At least one Container in the Pod has a memory or CPU request.

  For example ~ 
  - requests(memory) > limits(memory) 

### BestEffort

A Pod will get a QoS class of `BestEffort`, if:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: test-pod
  namespace: default
spec:
  containers:
  - name: test-container
    image: nginx
```

- The containers in the Pod must not have any memory or CPU limits or requests.
