---
layout: post
title: "(I'm struggling for a title) notes! #8"
description: "daily notes"
category: Daily Logs
tags: [Daily Logs]
comments: false
---

May 08, 2021


I'm struggling for a title(s), for these daily blogs. If you've any suggestions, ***please please tell me 😅 (I'm very serious)***. I want to entirely eliminate this title thinking part. 

***Anyways, updates from today:***

- Today was kind of a leisure day. Well, kind of only, because for the whole day, I was troubling my-own-self with the feeling that I was supposed to work today and I didn't do anything, work like work. I need to improve here alot. <!-- break -->

- I bought my first ever domain name today ([psaggu.com](blog.psaggu.com)). And yes, with no doubts, I still did a lot of thinking (cough cough ***over-thinking***) while deciding, whether I should buy or not, or why I should buy, or what I will use it for, etc etc. But, **tl;dr** I bought it & now this blog is live on [blog.psaggu.com](blog.psaggu.com). It was a very good exercise for me, understanding how to create DNS records.

- To make all my social media handles, cohesive with this new domain name, I changed/updated the twitter username (to *[@_psaggu](https://twitter.com/_psaggu)*), linkedIn (to [psaggu](https://www.linkedin.com/in/psaggu/)) & gnome gitlab username (to [psaggu](https://gitlab.gnome.org/psaggu)) handles. Well, Github is still left, & I'm not sure what all things it will break if I update it right now. Lots of trouble & risk, so leaving it for later.

- I re-wrote the blog's [about](https://blog.psaggu.com/about.html) page. I think I can be very ok with this one for quite some time now. :)

- I finished some pending phone calls (family & friends).

- (Just right now) I also finished filling up the post course completion survery for my DO280 training course (yes, that counts as some real work).

- And I wrote this post. (*title, title, please suggest me title*)

That's all for today, Tata everyone. Good night!

---

Ok, finally, I finished re-doing my jekyll blog. For now, it looks exactly like, how I wanted it to look like, in the beginning of this morning.

*This was truly a required effort and definitely worth every second I spent today on it. I really started hating this blog for how it looked.*

Plus, with all these redoing stuff today, I realised such an important and surprising thing.

Today's blogs is my ***100th blog post*** on the home page. So, in a way, it was *the perfect day* to renovate this website.

Got a new domain, got a new renovated theme, ***Wohoooo, I am really happy!*** 🎊 🎊

---

Thank you so much! 🙏
