---
layout: post
title: "`containerd` v1.5.1 GA, event `watch` stream server-side timeout , dropping python2 support from `k8s-client/python` & `k8s-client/python-base`, dedicated kubernetes contribution page #11"
description: "rough notes of what things I did today"
category: upstream-contribution
tags: [kubernetes]
comments: false
---

May 14, 2021

***Quick notes from today:***

#### `Bumped containerd version to v1.5.1`

- In the morning, I worked on writing PRs for bumping the `containered` version to the GA version `v1.5.1` in the following projects:
    - `microsoft/hcsshim` ~ [bump containerd version to v1.5.1 #1027](https://github.com/microsoft/hcsshim/pull/1027#event-4745184459)
    - `google/cadvisor` ~ [bump containerd version to v1.5.1 #2870](https://github.com/google/cadvisor/pull/2870)
    - `kubernetes/image-builder` ~ [bump containerd version to v1.5.1 #610](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/image-builder/pull/610)
    - `kubernetes/test-infra` ~ [bump containerd version to v1.5.1 #22178](https://github.com/kubernetes/test-infra/pull/22178)

#### `Dropping python2 support from k8s-client/python & k8s-client/python-base`

- I am currently working on the PRs that will drop the python2 support from the `kubernetes-client/python` & `kubernetes-client/python-base` repositories.
    - `kubernetes-client/python-base` ~ [[WIP] drop python2 support #238](https://github.com/kubernetes-client/python-base/pull/238)
    - `kubernetes-client/python` ~ [[WIP] drop python 2 support #1468](https://github.com/kubernetes-client/python/pull/1468)
- While doing the PRs, I learnt about what's the usage of the following python modules:
    - `isort` ~ Python utility / library to sort imports alphabetically, and automatically separated into sections and by type.
    - `coverage` ~ A tool for measuring code coverage of Python programs. It monitors your program, noting which parts of the code have been executed, then analyzes the source to identify code that could have been executed but was not. Coverage measurement is typically used to gauge the effectiveness of tests
    - `codecov` ~ A reporting tool that is intended to process any coverage report format into a format that is standard across Codecov.
- Both of the PRs are work in progress (WIP). The work done in both the repos, so far is:
    - removed python2 from the `.travis.yaml` file
    - remove python2 from the `tox.ini` file
    - remove `-y` flag from isort command in `update-pycodestle.sh` script
    - fix sequence of module imports to fix the failing `pycodestyle` checks in the following files:
        - `add examples/multiple_clusters.py`
        - `examples/pick_kube_config_context.py`
        - `examples/pod_config_list.py`
    - tested `coverage` & `codecov` tests with python3 version (currently `v3.9`)
    - tested updated `update-pycodestyle` for python3 version `v3.9` in case of arch `ppc6le`
- Also, just realised, `kubernetes-client/python-base` clone the `kubernetes-client/python` while running the travis CLI jobs. So, I need to first finish the PR for `kubernetes-client/python` & then move to the `kubernetes-client/python-base` one.

#### `documenting watch stream server-side timeout`

- Raised the following PR to document the pods event `watch`stream `server-side` and `client-side` timeout:
    - [add documentation for the server & client side timeout #1467](https://github.com/kubernetes-client/python/pull/1467)

#### `dedicated kubernetes contribution page on blog`

- I have created a dedicated page for logging & tracking all my upstream Kuberenetes project contributions. Find it [here](https://www.psaggu.com/kubernetes.html), on the blog.

---

That's all for today! o/
