---
layout: post
title: "Notes: demonstrate python dynamic-client usage & brainstorming strategic-merge-patch, deployment rolling restart method, tekton pipelines, Container Storage Interface (CSI) session #4"
description: "rough notes of what things I did today"
category: upstream-contribution
tags: [kubernetes]
comments: false
---

***May 3, 2021***

Notes from today:

- Improved this [PR (add examples to demonstrate the usage of dynamic client #1448)](https://github.com/kubernetes-client/python/pull/1448) from yesterday with review pointers. What I fixed is the following:
    - used `apiextensions.k8s.io/v1` in place of `apiextensions.k8s.io/v1beta` for CustomResourceDefintion (CRD) api
    - changing the `apiextensions.k8s.io` version to `v1` made adding [versions schema](https://github.com/Priyankasaggu11929/python/blob/psaggu-add-dynamic-client-examples/examples/dynamic-client/cluster_scoped_custom_resource.py#L51-L82) mandatory. So, learnt a lot today about writing CRD schema.
    - improved variables names `ingressroute_manifest_one` to `ingressroute_manifest_first`, so it become more consistent with `ingressroute_manifest_second` (well yes, I'm silly to name this as `*-one` & `*-second`, in place of one of two, or first or second)
    - as suggested, tried using `application/strategic-merge-patch+json` while applying patches to `custom resource (CR)` objects, but there is some issue here. Seems like, the `strategic-merge-patch` is not supported. Atleast that's what the error says precisely. But [this patch](https://github.com/kubernetes-client/python/commit/789e37464b8512ee4687ecf03221ff088afde450#diff-5a785a7fc5b19b934975d4d49eb71d730de127362b35f89e368179b8355796c8) is for supporting the `strategic merge patch`.  See [this comment here](https://github.com/kubernetes-client/python/pull/1448#discussion_r624919083) for context. I'll wait for more input on this from the reviewers.
- The reviewer to one of the previous [PR (add example to demonstrate a rolling restart of the deployment #1450)](https://github.com/kubernetes-client/python/pull/1450) suggested to replicate the same example for a k8s python `typed client`. So, I refactored & cleaned a previous `deployment_crud.py` python script to include a `rolling_restart_deployment` method. Here is the [PR (update deployment_crud.py to include a `rolling_restart_deployment` method for typed client #1452)](https://github.com/kubernetes-client/python/pull/1452)

- During the office hours, I worked on writing some openshift tekton pipelines/tasks (which are a part of our team's central autonomous platform, `cssre-pipelines`).
  - wrote `url_shortner` tekton task, which enhances the google-chat notification messages from `github/ci-pipeline` (another tekton pipeline) by adding a shortened url of the running `pipelinerun` logs tab. PR [here](https://github.com/rh-cssre/cssre-pipelines/pull/9).
  - wrote `report-unresolved-pagerduty-incidents` tekton pipeline, which will send a report of `unresolved` PagerDuty incidents on the respective (team's) google-chat channel, after a schedule of every 6 hours (which is at the end of every IC on-call shifts). WIP PR [here](https://github.com/rh-cssre/cssre-pipelines/pull/10) (I'm still testing it).
  - spent time setting up a development test namespace to perform testing on new tasks/pipelines defined under `cssre-pipleines`.
  
  
- Lastly, joined a k8s community session around *Container Storage Interface* (CSI). Well, I hardly understood anything there, but that's my inexperience with the concept. The session was very thorough. I'm keeping the [notes & recording](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1FsC-XyEoCzbqagvtrrG8EpNy-FbTKU6ZEnRogH7nHc0/edit#) here for myself.

That's all from today. 
