---
layout: post
title: "My attempt at doing syntopical thinking!"
description: ""
category: NotesToSelf
tags: [NotesToSelf]
comments: false
---

June 27, 2021

In the recent *3-2-1 Thursday* newsletter by *James Clear*, I read the following excerpt from the section stating Computer scientist **Leonard Adleman's** take on intellectual courage & choosing the right problem to work on.

> For the young scientist, this question of choosing the right question, to spend your valuable limited intellectual resources on is critical. I often sit for months and do no productive work that anybody can see, because I don't feel I have a good enough question to work on. Rather than take on some lesser question, I would prefer to read a mystery novel. The point is, sometimes it's important to lie fallow for a time waiting for the 'right question' to appear, rather than to engage in uninspiring work and miss the important opportunity when in comes.
> 
> ...
> 
> I always tell my students and junior faculty that they are better off following their inspiration and their hearts in what research they do, that they should always try to take on the most interesting and important problems, that they should not waste their time on little problems just to make another line on a vitae.


I read the *So good they can't ignore you* book & the first chapter itself speaks about **"Don't follow your passion"**. I feel the above paragraph somewhat gives the idea of following passion only, ***following inspirations, following their hearts***. So, I kind of disconnect with this paragraph I quoted above. 

Because it implies me the idea that I should wait until I get the *right* opportunity & in the meanwhile, I shouldn't do the small works that lead me to that. I understand that spending where & how, the ***valuable limited intellectual resources*** on is critical & require thought (& that's what I learnt from *Deep Work* book too)

But I believe doing lots of small tasks that is related to the bigger task, eventually prepares me for the bigger task itself & also, increases my chance to get to the *right* opportunity or opportunities soon.

And also, I learnt from my mentors that doing quantity of work also matters if you can't give quality of work at the moment, or if you're still at the early stage of making your career capital. The quantity of work ***is*** the way to go to the side of quality of work. And that is what the book **Atomic Habits** also taught with this example. It says, when in a study, they asked one set of students to take lots of photographs for a duration of the entire course semeser, & to another set of students, they asked to take only one perfect, *right* photograph, over the course of that entire semester. The first set of students who took lots of photographs performed better & way better, because:
1. they did their work in quantity, took lots and lots of pictures
2. second, with lots and lots picture, they were getting self feedback at every time to improve the next time

So, what point I'm trying to make it is, it worked! Doing lots of small tasks to gain career capital, over focusing on doing just the *right* task once, the former worked!

That's my attempt of thinking at it. I might be wrong, and that's my opportunity to learn more. 🙂
